- [Instructor] To demonstrate the final GitOps principle,
automated state control, we're going to violate
one of the golden rules of GitOps,
yup, I'm going to use kubectl to directly modify
the Kubernetes cluster.
Don't try this in prod.
All right, so let's take a look at what's running
on the cluster.
To do that, just click on a pod and you'll see
that we're running version 2.0 of the container image.
that's the desired state, that's what's in Git.
Now let's create some drift.
To do that, I'm going to navigate to a terminal
and inside of this terminal, we're going to issue
a patch command using kubectl.
So this command is going to roll back the image
in the deployment to the first version
of our container image.
So we're purposely creating some drift so
that our cluster's runtime state doesn't match
the desired state in Git.
All right, let's go ahead, let's issue that command
and then take a look at Argo CD.
You'll notice it automatically picks up that the cluster
is out of sync with the desired state in Git.
And if we want to learn more about the drift,
we can click on the app diff button,
and then here we can select Compact Diff
and it's going to point out the exact cause of the drift.
So it shows us the difference between our desired state
and our cluster's runtime state,
and you can see it's pinpointing that container image.
Now, if we navigate into the app details,
here if we scroll down,
you'll notice that the self-heal policy hasn't been enabled
and I did that purposefully so that we could pause and take
a look at that drift that gets created when we run an
imperative command via kubectl.
If we go ahead and enable this option for self healing,
take a look at what the cluster does,
it automatically begins to reconcile
the cluster's runtime state with the desired state in Git.
So if we take a look here when it finishes,
you'll notice we're back to version 2.0
of that container image.
And let's see what happens if I issue
the patch command again.
So here, if we take a look, the cluster stayed reconciled,
it corrected the drift rather quickly.
We didn't even see it,
but if we take a look at one of the pods,
you can see that we're running version 2.0
of the container image.
So that's the control loop in action,
it reconciled the system's runtime state
with the desired state to get things restored.
That's automated state control,
our final GitOps principle in action.